docs/19-stripe-cloudflare-setup.md, before:

# 19. Stripe + Cloudflare Setup (Local to Production)

This is the concrete setup checklist to get checkout, claim flow, video playback, and resource downloads working reliably.

## 1) Required Environment Variables

Set these in `.env`:

```dotenv
APP_URL=http://127.0.0.1:8000

STRIPE_KEY=pk_test_...
STRIPE_SECRET=sk_test_...
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_...

CF_STREAM_IFRAME_BASE_URL=https://iframe.videodelivery.net
CF_STREAM_SIGNED_URLS_ENABLED=false
CF_STREAM_TOKEN_TTL_SECONDS=3600
CF_STREAM_ACCOUNT_ID=
CF_STREAM_API_TOKEN=
CF_STREAM_CUSTOMER_CODE=

COURSE_RESOURCES_DISK=s3
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<r2-access-key-id>
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<r2-secret>
AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=auto
AWS_BUCKET=<r2-bucket-name>
AWS_ENDPOINT=https://<account-id>.r2.cloudflarestorage.com
AWS_USE_PATH_STYLE_ENDPOINT=true

MAIL_MAILER=log
MAIL_FROM_ADDRESS=hello@example.com
MAIL_FROM_NAME="VideoCourses"
```

Notes:
- `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET` must match the currently active endpoint secret from Stripe CLI or Stripe Dashboard.
- `COURSE_RESOURCES_DISK=s3` is required for Cloudflare R2-backed resource downloads.
- `CF_STREAM_IFRAME_BASE_URL` can remain the default unless you have a custom delivery domain.
- For signed Stream playback, configure `CF_STREAM_*` signing values and enable signed URLs in Cloudflare Stream.
- `MAIL_MAILER` must be configured in each environment to deliver purchase receipt emails.

## 2) Stripe Product/Price Mapping (Critical)

A course is purchasable only when `courses.stripe_price_id` is populated.

If missing, checkout returns:
- `Course is not purchasable yet.`

### Create product and one-time price in Stripe (Dashboard)

1. Create Product for each course.
2. Add one-time Price in USD.
3. Copy the Stripe Price ID (`price_...`).
4. Save it into the matching course row.

Example via `php artisan tinker`:

```php
$course = App\Models\Course::where('slug', 'foundations-of-product-ops')->first();
$course->stripe_price_id = 'price_1234567890';
$course->save();
```

Verify mapping:

```bash
php artisan tinker --execute="App\\Models\\Course::query()->select('id','slug','stripe_price_id','is_published')->get();"
```

## 3) Local Webhook Wiring

Run app:

```bash
php artisan serve --host=127.0.0.1 --port=8000
```

In another terminal, forward Stripe events:

```bash
stripe listen --forward-to http://127.0.0.1:8000/webhooks/stripe
```

Copy the reported `whsec_...` value to `.env` as `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET`, then clear config cache:

```bash
php artisan config:clear
```

Recommended events for this app:
- `checkout.session.completed`
- `checkout.session.async_payment_succeeded`
- `checkout.session.async_payment_failed`
- `charge.refunded`

## 4) Cloudflare Stream Setup

Per lesson, set `video_provider=cloudflare_stream` and store the Stream video UID in `video_source`.

Expected embed URL shape:
- `https://iframe.videodelivery.net/<video_uid>`

Quick data check:

```bash
php artisan tinker --execute="App\\Models\\Lesson::query()->select('id','slug','video_provider','video_source')->get();"
```

Sync stored lesson durations from Cloudflare Stream metadata:

```bash
php artisan videocourses:stream-sync-durations
```

### Optional Stream hardening with signed URLs

1. In Cloudflare Stream, enable signed URL requirement for private delivery.
2. Create Stream API token with permissions needed to create playback tokens.
3. Set:
   - `CF_STREAM_SIGNED_URLS_ENABLED=true`
   - `CF_STREAM_ACCOUNT_ID`
   - `CF_STREAM_API_TOKEN`
   - `CF_STREAM_CUSTOMER_CODE`
   - `CF_STREAM_TOKEN_TTL_SECONDS` (for example `900`)
4. Clear config cache:

```bash
php artisan config:clear
```

## 5) Cloudflare R2 Setup

1. Create private R2 bucket.
2. Create API token (Object Read/Write as needed).
3. Use token as `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`.
4. Set `AWS_ENDPOINT` to account endpoint.
5. Set resource rows with `disk='s3'`, object key in `path`.

Quick check:

```bash
php artisan tinker --execute="App\\Models\\CourseResource::query()->select('id','disk','path')->get();"
```

## 6) End-to-End Test Recipe

1. Ensure course has `is_published=1` and valid `stripe_price_id`.
2. Open course page as guest, start checkout with email.
3. Complete Stripe test payment.
4. Land on `/checkout/success?session_id=...`.
5. Confirm page shows `Claim your purchase`.
6. Complete claim flow.
7. Confirm access appears under `My Courses`.
8. Confirm receipt email is delivered with Stripe receipt link, and guest purchases include the claim link.

If payment succeeded but no claim button appears:
- Wait 3-10 seconds and click `Refresh status` on success page.
- Check `stripe_events` and `orders` rows for that `session_id`.
- Replay event with:

```bash
php artisan videocourses:stripe-reprocess <stripe_event_id>
```

## 7) Production Webhook and App URL Checklist

Before production cutover:

1. Set production `APP_URL` to real domain.
2. Configure Stripe webhook endpoint to `https://<your-domain>/webhooks/stripe`.
3. Use production `sk_live` / `pk_live` / webhook secret.
4. Ensure queue worker is running for any async side effects.
5. Validate one real payment in low-value test product.

## 8) Quick SQL for Debugging Purchase State

```sql
-- Find most recent orders
select id, email, stripe_checkout_session_id, user_id, status, paid_at
from orders
order by id desc
limit 20;

-- Find guest claim tokens
select pct.id, pct.order_id, pct.token, pct.expires_at, pct.consumed_at
from purchase_claim_tokens pct
join orders o on o.id = pct.order_id
order by pct.id desc
limit 20;

-- Find webhook processing entries
select stripe_event_id, event_type, processed_at, processing_error
from stripe_events
order by id desc
limit 20;
```

Commit message:

test(docs): cover gift flows and document operations

docs/19-stripe-cloudflare-setup.md, after:

# 19. Stripe + Cloudflare Setup (Local to Production)

This is the concrete setup checklist to get checkout, claim flow, video playback, and resource downloads working reliably.

## 1) Required Environment Variables

Set these in `.env`:

```dotenv
APP_URL=http://127.0.0.1:8000

STRIPE_KEY=pk_test_...
STRIPE_SECRET=sk_test_...
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_...

CF_STREAM_IFRAME_BASE_URL=https://iframe.videodelivery.net
CF_STREAM_SIGNED_URLS_ENABLED=false
CF_STREAM_TOKEN_TTL_SECONDS=3600
CF_STREAM_ACCOUNT_ID=
CF_STREAM_API_TOKEN=
CF_STREAM_CUSTOMER_CODE=

COURSE_RESOURCES_DISK=s3
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<r2-access-key-id>
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<r2-secret>
AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=auto
AWS_BUCKET=<r2-bucket-name>
AWS_ENDPOINT=https://<account-id>.r2.cloudflarestorage.com
AWS_USE_PATH_STYLE_ENDPOINT=true

MAIL_MAILER=log
MAIL_FROM_ADDRESS=hello@example.com
MAIL_FROM_NAME="VideoCourses"
GIFTS_ENABLED=false
```

Notes:
- `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET` must match the currently active endpoint secret from Stripe CLI or Stripe Dashboard.
- `COURSE_RESOURCES_DISK=s3` is required for Cloudflare R2-backed resource downloads.
- `CF_STREAM_IFRAME_BASE_URL` can remain the default unless you have a custom delivery domain.
- For signed Stream playback, configure `CF_STREAM_*` signing values and enable signed URLs in Cloudflare Stream.
- `MAIL_MAILER` must be configured in each environment to deliver purchase receipt emails.
- Set `GIFTS_ENABLED=true` only when gift flows are ready for production use.

## 2) Stripe Product/Price Mapping (Critical)

A course is purchasable only when `courses.stripe_price_id` is populated.

If missing, checkout returns:
- `Course is not purchasable yet.`

### Create product and one-time price in Stripe (Dashboard)

1. Create Product for each course.
2. Add one-time Price in USD.
3. Copy the Stripe Price ID (`price_...`).
4. Save it into the matching course row.

Example via `php artisan tinker`:

```php
$course = App\Models\Course::where('slug', 'foundations-of-product-ops')->first();
$course->stripe_price_id = 'price_1234567890';
$course->save();
```

Verify mapping:

```bash
php artisan tinker --execute="App\\Models\\Course::query()->select('id','slug','stripe_price_id','is_published')->get();"
```

## 3) Local Webhook Wiring

Run app:

```bash
php artisan serve --host=127.0.0.1 --port=8000
```

In another terminal, forward Stripe events:

```bash
stripe listen --forward-to http://127.0.0.1:8000/webhooks/stripe
```

Copy the reported `whsec_...` value to `.env` as `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET`, then clear config cache:

```bash
php artisan config:clear
```

Recommended events for this app:
- `checkout.session.completed`
- `checkout.session.async_payment_succeeded`
- `checkout.session.async_payment_failed`
- `charge.refunded`

## 4) Cloudflare Stream Setup

Per lesson, set `video_provider=cloudflare_stream` and store the Stream video UID in `video_source`.

Expected embed URL shape:
- `https://iframe.videodelivery.net/<video_uid>`

Quick data check:

```bash
php artisan tinker --execute="App\\Models\\Lesson::query()->select('id','slug','video_provider','video_source')->get();"
```

Sync stored lesson durations from Cloudflare Stream metadata:

```bash
php artisan videocourses:stream-sync-durations
```

### Optional Stream hardening with signed URLs

1. In Cloudflare Stream, enable signed URL requirement for private delivery.
2. Create Stream API token with permissions needed to create playback tokens.
3. Set:
   - `CF_STREAM_SIGNED_URLS_ENABLED=true`
   - `CF_STREAM_ACCOUNT_ID`
   - `CF_STREAM_API_TOKEN`
   - `CF_STREAM_CUSTOMER_CODE`
   - `CF_STREAM_TOKEN_TTL_SECONDS` (for example `900`)
4. Clear config cache:

```bash
php artisan config:clear
```

## 5) Cloudflare R2 Setup

1. Create private R2 bucket.
2. Create API token (Object Read/Write as needed).
3. Use token as `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`.
4. Set `AWS_ENDPOINT` to account endpoint.
5. Set resource rows with `disk='s3'`, object key in `path`.

Quick check:

```bash
php artisan tinker --execute="App\\Models\\CourseResource::query()->select('id','disk','path')->get();"
```

## 6) End-to-End Test Recipe

1. Ensure course has `is_published=1` and valid `stripe_price_id`.
2. Open course page as guest, start checkout with email.
3. Complete Stripe test payment.
4. Land on `/checkout/success?session_id=...`.
5. Confirm page shows `Claim your purchase`.
6. Complete claim flow.
7. Confirm access appears under `My Courses`.
8. Confirm receipt email is delivered with Stripe receipt link, and guest purchases include the claim link.
9. (If gifts enabled) run a gift checkout and confirm recipient + buyer gift emails are delivered.

If payment succeeded but no claim button appears:
- Wait 3-10 seconds and click `Refresh status` on success page.
- Check `stripe_events` and `orders` rows for that `session_id`.
- Replay event with:

```bash
php artisan videocourses:stripe-reprocess <stripe_event_id>
```

## 7) Production Webhook and App URL Checklist

Before production cutover:

1. Set production `APP_URL` to real domain.
2. Configure Stripe webhook endpoint to `https://<your-domain>/webhooks/stripe`.
3. Use production `sk_live` / `pk_live` / webhook secret.
4. Ensure queue worker is running for any async side effects.
5. Validate one real payment in low-value test product.

## 8) Quick SQL for Debugging Purchase State

```sql
-- Find most recent orders
select id, email, stripe_checkout_session_id, user_id, status, paid_at
from orders
order by id desc
limit 20;

-- Find guest claim tokens
select pct.id, pct.order_id, pct.token, pct.expires_at, pct.consumed_at
from purchase_claim_tokens pct
join orders o on o.id = pct.order_id
order by pct.id desc
limit 20;

-- Find webhook processing entries
select stripe_event_id, event_type, processed_at, processing_error
from stripe_events
order by id desc
limit 20;
```
